- [Instructor] The final topic I want to introduce
before jumping into Spring Data JPA
is the Java Persistence Query Language.
We use JPQL to interact with entities
and their persistent state.
The queries are portable to any relational
database management system.
The syntax is similar to SQL,
but it references entities and attributes
instead of tables and columns.
Let's compare them in a real world example.
First in SQL.
This SQL query looks up all the students in the database.
We see that there are three students,
Jane, Bob, and Patrick.
This SQL query fetches Jane's details
as well as the courses she's taking.
It accesses all four tables
to pull in seven columns of information.
The first four are from the student table.
Course_id is from the enrollment table.
Course-name is from the course table
and dept_name is from the department table.
This query is pretty messy and difficult to maintain
and we still need a lot of coding
to map it from the physical model to the logical model.
Now let's try that again in the logical world
using the EntityManager and JPQL.
I have a method called print jane
which invokes entityManager.createQuery
passing in the JPQL query,
Select s from Student where s.name=jane.
Get single result invokes the query
and returns a student object,
then we print out the student to the console.
Much better don't you think?
Not only does the query pull the student object,
it also grabs all the courses
because we set the fetch type equals eager.
On top of that,
each course eagerly fetches the department by default.
A common mistake when running JPQL queries
is accessing a collection which has not been loaded.
So if I remove the fetch equals fetch type dot eager
from the at many to one annotation
and call two string on the jane object,
I would get a lazy initialization exception.
This has been a very quick introduction to JPQL.
You can learn more about it
in the Java Persistence Query Language section
of the Oracle hosted Java EE 6 tutorial.